Take the wheelchair bus to Quebec City?
It's possible !
If you move in a manual or electric wheelchair,
you can board Écolobus and articulated buses on routes 800, 801 and 802.
To be able to take the bus at a stop, the stop zone must be accessible.
A pictogram on the stop sign allows you to check it.
When the bus is near, be clearly visible and signal to the driver to know you want to get on.
The pictogram displayed at the bus door indicates that the bus has a ramp.
You go up?
Stand back from the sidewalk so the ramp can open.
Once it is fully deployed, you can then climb.
The anti-tip system of your chair must be in place.
At any given time, there can only be one person in a wheelchair on a bus.
If you have difficulty paying your right of way, you can ask for assistance from the driver.
I need help please. </ i>
Yes, for a moment, I'll help you. </ i>
That's it! </ i>
Thank you very much. </ i>
Welcome. </ I>
To get into the priority space, walk down the aisle and back so you always look back
until your backrest is resting on the cushion.
Once installed, make sure your backrest is upright and apply the brakes.
If you are using a walker, you can also ask the driver to deploy the ramp.
However, scooters and scooters are not allowed on board.
To board RTC accessible buses, your chair must be less than 66 cm wide and less than 117 cm long.
Its total weight, including you, must not exceed 272 kilos.
When approaching your destination, press the stop button.
If you can not do it yourself, tell the driver where to stop when you board the bus.
The driver will check that the requested stop is accessible before deploying the ramp.
When the bus is stopped and other customers' trips are complete, move to the front door.
For accessible stops or for any other information on the services of the RTC,
inquire before leaving on our website at rtcquebec.ca
or by calling customer service at 418-627-2511.
Welcome aboard !